HCAL 23/2011

    IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE

    HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION

    COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE

    CONSTITUTIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE LAW LIST

    NO. 23 OF 2011

    _____________

	BETWEEN
					
    
        
            
                 

                TURBO TOP LIMITED

                Applicant
            

            
                
                    and
                
            

            
                 

                TOWN PLANNING BOARD

                Respondent
            
		

		_____________

		AND

		HCAL 52/2011

		IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE

		HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION

		COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE

		CONSTITUTIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE LAW LIST

		NO. 52 OF 2011

		_____________
					
		BETWEEN
					
        
            
                 

                TURBO TOP LIMITED

                Applicant
            

            
                
                    and
                
            

            
                 

                TOWN PLANNING BOARD

                Respondent
            
        
    

	_____________

	(Heard together)

    
        Before: Hon Reyes J in Court
    

    
        Dates of Hearing: 7-8 November 2011

        Date of Judgment: 21 November 2011
    

    ______________

    J U D G M E N T

    ______________

    I. INTRODUCTION

    1.  Turbo Top is a subsidiary of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.

    2.  Turbo Top owns the site at the junction of Queen’s Road Central and Garden Road. Cheung Kong Center (CKC) (a commercial tower) now occupies the site. In addition, there is a public open space in front of CKC; a car park of 1,046 parking spaces (800 for public and 246 for private use); a public garden at the car park’s deck level; a public toilet; and a small commercial space of about 648 sq m used as a fast food outlet.  The development originally included a post office. But the space occupied by the latter is now used by a Government office.    

    3.  The site formerly comprised the Hong Kong Hilton, Beaconsfield House (where Government offices were situated) and the Garden Road Car Park (which had 800 public car parking spaces). 

    4.  Turbo Top acquired the site in November 1996 under an Agreement with Government.  It was a special condition of the Agreement that Turbo Top maintain a public car park of at least 800 spaces at the site.  It was also a special condition of the Agreement that Turbo Top erect a development at the site having a specified minimum GFA, of which not more than 680 sq m could be for retail purposes.

    5.  Turbo Top now challenges amendments proposed by the Town Planning Board (TPB) to the Outline Zoning Plan (OZP) for the area where the site is situated. 

    6.  Turbo Top objected to the amendments when they were gazetted.  On 21 January 2011 TPB rejected Turbo Top’s objections. 

    7.  The TPB then further considered the OZP amendments as a result of representations by members of the public (including Turbo Top).  As a result, on 15 April 2011 the TPB accepted some representations (including some by Turbo Top).

    8.  On 13 May 2011 the TPB of its own decided to vary the proposed OZP amendments yet further.

    9.  Turbo Top contends that the TPB’s decisions of 21 January, 15 April and 13 May 2011 (respectively, the 1st, 2nd and 3rd decisions) were invalid for various reasons.  By HCAL 23 Turbo Top attacked the 1st decision.  By HCAL 52 Turbo Top attacked the 2nd and 3rd decisions.  Since both sets of proceedings are inter-related, they have been heard together.  

    10.  Turbo Top’s main complaint is that, in proposing to amend the relevant OZP, the TPB exceeded its jurisdiction.  The TPB (Turbo Top says) is only authorised by the Town Planning Ordinance (Cap.131) (TPO) to prepare and approve plans for the layout of areas of Hong Kong.  According to the long title to the TPO, the TPB should do this in order “[t]o promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the community”. 

    11.  What the TPB cannot do (Turbo Top suggests) is impose restrictions on a specific building (such as CKC) within an area.  That (Turbo Top complains) is to usurp the power of the Building Authority which regulates what can or what cannot be done in relation to a given building. 

    12.  The TPB’s powers (Turbo Top argues) are merely “broad brush” in relation to areas of Hong Kong.  The TPB’s powers do not allow the TPB to engage in the “micro-management” of a building by the preparation and approval of plans which state what can or should not be done in a building.

    II. BACKGROUND

    13.  Since 1981 the site has had 2 zonings.  About 0.64 ha is zoned G/IC, while the remaining 0.32 ha is zoned C.

    14.  Cheung Kong submitted a proposal for the comprehensive re-development of the site in 1994.  ExCo agreed to the re-development scheme in 1995.  The Lands Department then negotiated terms of exchange. 

    15.  A pre-requisite for implementation of the scheme was the obtaining by Cheung Kong of the TPB’s approval for the redevelopment pursuant to TPO s. 16.  Cheung Kong did not regard it as strictly necessary from a legal standpoint to apply for TPB approval. Nonetheless, for “public relations” reasons, it agreed to seek TPB approval as required by Government.

    16.  A selling-point of Cheung Kong’s planning application was that the re-development would include re-provisioning of the 800 public parking spaces that would be lost through demolition of the Garden Road Car Park. 

    17.  The re-provisioning was a matter of concern to Government at the time.  This is evident, for instance, from comments on the scheme by the Project Manager (Hong Kong & Islands) (PM(HK&I)).  The latter stressed that “[t]he existing public facilities within the redevelopment site such as public car park, public toilets, Post Office etc. must be adequately re-provisioned so as to safeguard the interest of the public”.

    18.  In October 1995 the TPB notified Cheung Kong that its TPO s.16 application had been approved.  It was a condition of approval that “the provision, management and maintenance of the public car park including temporary re-provisioning arrangements” be to “the satisfaction of the Commissioner for Transport or of the [TPB]”.

    19.  In November 1996 Government and Turbo Top entered into the Agreement and Conditions of Exchange whereby the latter was granted the site as one lot (not 2 distinct lots as formerly). 

    20.  In June 2008 Turbo Top applied to the Lands Department for modification of its lease conditions to allow 78 public parking spaces (located in the C zone) to be converted to a supermarket. 

    21.  In support, Turbo Top commissioned a car park study.  That showed that peak utilisation of the public parking spaces was only 68.3%.  Nearby car parking (such as at Citibank Tower and Murray Road) also revealed low utilisation rates.

    22.  In July 2010 the Transport Department indicated that it had no objection to the proposed conversion of 78 spaces to a supermarket.

    23.  Meanwhile, in June 2010, the TPB’s Metro Planning Committee proposed re-zoning the site from C and G/IC to C(1).  This would be done “to reflect the existing development on the site”.

    24.  The proposed OZP amendments were gazetted on 16 July 2010. 

    25.  The draft OZP amendments stated in “Remarks” within the “Commercial” section of the Schedule of Uses:-

    
        “On land designated ‘Commercial (1)’, no new development, or addition, alteration and/or modification to or redevelopment of an existing building shall result in a total development and/or redevelopment in excess of a maximum non-domestic gross floor area of 144,840 m2, of which a gross floor area of not more than 680 m2 shall be used for retail purpose, and gross floor areas of not less than 700 m2 and 25,000 m2 shall be used respectively for Government facilities and public car park with a minimum of 800 public car parking spaces. Public open space of not less than 5,200 m2 shall be provided.”
    

    26.  On 16 September 2010 Turbo Top submitted representations (referred to as “R7”) objecting to the OZP amendments affecting the site.  Other parties also made representations.

    27.  To assist the TPB when considering the representations, the Planning Department prepared Paper No. 8703.  On R7, that paper stated:-

    
        “TD [Transport Department] has advised that taking onto account the imminent developments/redevelopments in Central, which include a number of private developments alongside Queen’s Road Central without public car parking spaces, it would be prudent to keep 78 car parking spaces at Cheung Kong Center. It should be noted that what R7 asks for is deleting the stipulation of the requirements relating to the public car park in the Notes, rather than just the 78 car parking spaces. The implication of such proposal is far more significant.”
    

    28.  At its 21 January 2011 meeting, the TPB by the 1st decision rejected R7.  Its reasons for so doing were as follows:-

    
        “(a) the rezoning of the Cheung Kong Center site to C(1) was to reflect the completed development of the site. The stipulation of the specific GFA restrictions in the Notes followed the entitlements under the lease which reflected the development scheme approved by the Board. There was provision under the Notes for minor relaxation of the GFA restrictions on application to the Board.

        (b) the public car park was for the re-provisioning of the ex-Garden Road Multi-storey Car Park, and the government facilities provided within the site are for the re-provisioning of similar facilities in the ex-Beaconsfield House, continuous provision of these facilities should be ensured by imposing specific control in the Notes of the ‘C(1)’ zone; and

        (c) the OZP was a small-scale plan and it was intended to illustrate only the broad land use zonings. Since there was provision in the covering Notes of the OZP allowing boundaries between zones be subject to minor adjustments, realignment of the boundary to follow the lot boundary was considered not necessary.”
    

    29.  Note that there is a slight discrepancy between the boundary of the area zoned C(1) in the draft amended OZP and the actual site boundary.  Reason (c) concerned Turbo Top’s request that the OZP zoning boundary be re-drawn to conform with the site’s actual boundary.

    30.  On 18 February 2011 the TPB gazetted a revision to its proposed amendments to the OZP pursuant to TPO s. 6B(8).  The TPB put forward the revision in response to certain representations (identified as “R2” and “R5”) on the proposed OZP amendments.

    31.  The revision was supposed to make clear the planning intention behind the amendments.  Thus, the revision would expressly state that the C(1) zone was intended primarily for comprehensive development/ redevelopment for office use and provision of public car park, Government facilities and public open space, with supporting shop, services and eating place. 

    32.  On 10 March 2011 Turbo Top objected to the gazetted revision without prejudice to its previous representations.

    33.  At its 15 April 2011 meeting, the TPB by the 2nd decision rejected Turbo Top’s further representation (known as “F1”) against the inclusion of a statement of planning intention.  Instead, the TPB justified the revision to the OZP thus:-

    
        “To address the concern of some representers and commenter as well as the public on possible loss of Government, Institution or Community facilities and public open space due to the rezoning amendment of the CKC site from ‘Government Institution or Community’ and ‘Commercial’ to ‘C(1)’, it is considered appropriate to explain clearly the history/rationale of the rezoning and the planning control imposed on the site by revising the relevant parts of the Notes and ES [Explanatory Statement] to clearly set out that the planning intention of the ‘C(1)’ zone which is primarily for office use and the provision of public car park, government facilities and public open space, with supporting shop, services and eating place.”
    

    34.  At its 15 April meeting, the TPB by the 2nd decision also heeded some of Turbo Top’s objections. 

    35.  It decided to delete the retail GFA restriction which it had sought to impose on the site.  It did so to make the proposed amendments to the OZP insofar as the site was concerned “consistent with the development restrictions imposed on the IFC site”.

    36.  It decided to retain the requirement of 800 parking spaces, but it resolved “to incorporate provision for minor relaxation of the restriction on the minimum number of public car parking spaces on application for the C(1) zone”. 

    37.  Having made its 2nd decision, the TPB requested its Secretariat “to work out the amendments to the Notes and Explanatory Statement of the OZP for the Board’s further consideration”.   

    38.  On 13 May the TPB by the 3rd decision deleted the restriction of a minimum GFA for car parking spaces at the site.  According to the minutes of the meeting, the deletion was prompted by an observation of the TPB’s Secretary (Ms. Ophelia Wong).  She had pointed out that:-

    
        “for other OZPs, the general practice was to stipulate car parking requirement for particular sites either in terms of minimum GFA or minimum number of parking spaces. For consistency, it was therefore suggested that the restriction on the provision of a minimum GFA for public car parking for the C(1) zone be deleted.”
    

    39.  Turbo Top was informed of the 3rd decision on 18 May 2011.  Until then it had no idea that the TPB was considering the deletion of the minimum GFA for car parking spaces at the site.

    40.  Turbo Top’s principal complaints are as follows:-

    
        (1) The 1st decision and, consequently, amendments to the 1st decision made by the 2nd and 3rd decisions were ultra vires. That was because the decisions constituted impermissible micro-managing by the TPB of the uses of a specific building (CKC), rather than an area.

        (2) The proposed OZP amendments (as proposed by the 1st, 2nd and 3rd decisions) are inconsistent.

        (3) The 1st, 2nd and 3rd decisions were based on irrelevant or erroneous considerations.

        (4) The 3rd decision was vitiated by procedural irregularity.

        (5) The 1st, 2nd and 3rd decisions are arbitrary and discriminatory.
    

    III. DISCUSSION

    A. Preliminary

    41.  Before examining Turbo Top’s complaints, I should deal with a preliminary point raised by Mr Johnny Mok SC (appearing for the TPB). 

    42.  Mr Mok submits that HCAL 23 was premature.  That is because, when HCAL 23 was commenced, the TPB had yet to consider Turbo Top’s further representation (F1) at its 15 April 2011 meeting.  The 2nd decision, which was the outcome of that meeting, accepted some of Turbo Top’s arguments and varied the OZP amendments originally proposed. 

    43.  According to Mr Mok, this suggests that Turbo Top should have waited for the outcome of the 15 April meeting before initiating a judicial review.

    44.  But, as I indicated to Mr Mok and Mr Benjamin Yu SC (appearing for Turbo Top), I do not think that I should dismiss HCAL 23 on the purely technical ground of being premature. There is little point in so doing.

    45.  I doubt that the application was premature, since it seems to me that as of 21 January 2011 the TPB had firmly decided to revise the zoning of the site and impose restrictions on what could be done there.  The precise nature of those restrictions may have been varied later in response to other representations (for instance, R2 and R5, as opposed to R7). But the variations were in effect “fine-tuning” of the substantive decision already taken to reject R7.

    46.  I do not have to determine the question conclusively. 

    47.  By any reckoning, even in considering HCAL 53, I would have to grapple with at least the key issues raised by HCAL No. 23.  HCAL No. 23 queries the 1st decision.  HCAL 53 queries the 2nd and 3rd decisions.  Even if HCAL 23 were premature, I would still have to assess the essential legality of the 1st decision (or what survives of it), if only to arrive at conclusions on the vires of the 2nd and 3rd decisions. 

    48.  It follows that it would be wrong to dismiss HCAL 23 off-hand.  I need to deal with the thrust of the argument there at the very least.  It would accordingly be an arid exercise to spend significant time on the niceties of whether, when HCAL 23 of 2011 was initiated, the 1st decision had definitely rejected R7 or only reflected a provisional view on R7’s merits.

    49.  I shall proceed then on the foregoing basis.  In so doing, I am mindful that I cannot ignore subsequent events.  I accept Mr Mok’s caveat that I ought in any event to focus on what now remains of the 1st decision, namely, the re-zoning of the site from distinct G/IC and C zones to a C(1) zone and the imposition of a requirement (subject to minor relaxation upon application) that there be at least 800 public parking spaces in the site.  It would be academic to consider those elements of the 1st decision which the 2nd and 3rd decisions have superseded.

    B. Complaint (1): Impermissible micro-managing by TPB

    50.  Mr Yu’s submission begins with the long title to the TPO.  That expresses the TPO’s purpose:-

    
        “To promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the community by making provision for the systematic preparation and approval of plans for the lay-out of areas of Hong Kong as well as for the types of building suitable for erection therein and for the preparation and approval of plans for areas within which permission is required for development.”
    

    51.  The long title is echoed in TPO s. 3(1)(a). That confers on the TPB a power to “undertake the systematic preparation of draft plans for the lay-out of such areas of Hong Kong as the Chief Executive may direct, as well as the types of building suitable for erection therein”. Such power is to be exercised “[w]ith a view to the promotion of the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the community”.

    52.  TPO s. 4(1) specifies how the TPB may exercise the power conferred by s. 3(1)(a) in respect of layout plans.  TPO s. 4(1) provides:-

    
        “The Board’s draft plans prepared under section 3(1)(a) for the layout of any such area may show or make provision for:-

		
			(a) streets, railways and other main communications;

			(b) zones or districts set apart for use for residential, commercial, industiral or other specified uses;

			(c) reserves for Government, institution or community purposes;

			(d) parks, recreation grounds and similar open spaces;

			(e) zones or districts set apart for undetermined uses;

			(f) comprehensive development areas;

			(g) country parks, coastal protection areas, sites of specific interest, green belts or other specified uses that promote conservation or protection of the environment;

			(h) zones or districts set apart for use for village type development, agriculture or other specified rural uses;

			(i) zones or districts set apart for use for open storage,
		

        and any matter whatsoever may be shown or provided for or specified in or in respect of the plans by means of such diagrams, illustrations, notes or descriptive matter as the Board thinks appropriate; and any such diagrams, illustrations, notes and descriptive matters shall be part of the plans.”
    

    53.  TPO s. 4(1)(f) was added in 1988.  TPO ss. 4(1)(g)-(i) were added in 1991.

    54.  The words beginning “and any matter whatsoever ...” in s. 4(1) were added in 1974.  I shall refer to those words as “the s. 4(1) proviso”.  They were added to bring s. 4(1) in line with what had been thought to be the position prior to the High Court’s judgment in Singway v. AG [1974] HKLR 275. 

    55.  Before Singway, it had been assumed that ss. 4(1)(a)-(e) were illustrative, not exhaustive, of what the TPB could make provision for in a layout plan.  But Singway held otherwise.  Applying the maxim that the expression of a specific matter implied the exclusion of any other matter (expressio unius, exclusio alterius), Leonard J read the list in paras. (a)-(e) as an exhaustive statement of what the TPB could designate in a layout plan.

    56.  Had the TPO not been amended by the s. 4(1) proviso, Singway would have invalidated numerous OZPs, all based on a mistaken assumption as to the width of the power in s. 4(1).  See Explanatory Memorandum to the Town Planning (Amendment and Validation) Bill of 1974.

    57.  I pause to note that TPO s. 16 was also a response to Singway.  That was enacted to confer flexibility.  It enabled the TPB, where there is provision in an OZP for relaxation of a restriction, to grant permission upon application for the restriction to be relaxed in a particular case.

    58.  Mr Yu infers from the long-title and TPO ss. 3(1)(a) and 4(1) that the TPB’s approach in drawing up plans must be “broad brush”.  The TPB’s statutory powers can only be exercised in relation to areas or in respect of the types of buildings in particular areas.  The TPB cannot engage in “spot-zoning” by specifying some restriction affecting only a particular building within a given area.  If the TPB were to engage in such, it would be encroaching (Mr Yu says) upon the role of the Building Authority.

    59.  Mr Yu supports his reading of the TPB’s limited power with dicta from a trilogy of cases: Crozet v. AG [1973-76] HKC 97; AG v. CC Tse (Estate) Ltd. [1982] HKLR 7 (CA); and Wing On Ltd. v. Building Authority (1996) 6 HKPLR 432 (CA).

    60.  In Crozet (decided before Singway), Briggs CJ held that the TPB had power to specify the plot ratio for buildings in an area.  He observed that the TPB’s powers were widely drawn in the TPO and should be liberally construed.  But he cautioned (at 100E) that the TPB’s powers under the TPO “do not include such matters as the proportions, height and design of buildings”.  That was because the latter matters had been “left to the Building Authority under the Buildings Ordinance”.

    61.  In CC Tse (decided after Singway), it was argued that the TPB had no power under s. 3(1) to make provision for “the types of building suitable for erection” in a particular area otherwise than by reference to one or more of the matters listed in the paragraphs of s. 4(1).  Since s. 4(1) did not specifically mention plot ratio, it was submitted that the TPB could not regulate the plot ratios of buildings in a particular area. In the alternative, it was argued that plot ratio could not be equated with the expression “types of building” in s. 3(1). 

    62.  At first instance, CC Tse had successfully challenged the validity of the plot ratio restriction in the relevant OZP.  In the course of his judgment, Liu J suggested that “types of buildings” meant “classes of buildings sharing common characteristics”.

    63.  The Court of Appeal rejected the submission that the general power to make provision for “types of building” in s. 3(1) was constrained by the specific list in s. 4(1) dealing with layout plans. 

    64.  In considering the Applicant’s alternative argument, Cons JA stated (at 14H ff.):-

    
        “It seems to me that what is done inside a building is not a satisfactory characteristic for determining the type of that building, which is more a question of design. This could be introduced into [Liu J’s] definition by the addition of the word ‘architectural’, so that it would then read: ‘“types of building” means classes of building sharing common architectural characteristics’, or to put it in another way, when we wish to know into which type or types of building a particular building falls, we must look at the building as a building.

        The question then is whether plot ratio is an architectural characteristic. In my opinion it is. As I understand the term it means the relationship between the floor area of the building and the ground on which it could be built....

        It is thus not a rigid feature. It is a matter of proportion which leaves the architect considerable latitude, in theory at least. He may design a la pancake or a la pencil, or somewhere between those two extremes. Nonetheless, the resultant buildings will all have something in common. All will have the same relationship of floor area to site area. That is something which relates to the building as a building and in my view is an architectural characteristic as much as an auditorium or a garage. It may not be as readily discernible to the untrained eye, but it is there all the same, and its effect would, I feel confident, be immediately discernible to anyone were he faced with buildings of plot ratios as widely varied as those we are concerned with here.”
    

    65.  Cons JA obliquely contrasted (at 15F) the powers of the Building Authority under the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123) (BO) with those of the TPB under the TPO:-

    
        “A further objection was that the legislation cannot have intended the Town Planning Ordinance to deal with a matter of this kind because it is fully and specifically dealt with in regulations made under the Buildings Ordinance Cap. 123; the Town Planning Ordinance was meant to give guidance only of the ‘broad brush’ kind, not to deal with fine particulars of this nature.

        It seems to me however that the restriction imposed in the present instance is of the ‘broad brush’ kind...”
    

    66.  Having rejected the Applicant’s main and alternative arguments, Cons JA did not deal with the Government’s points on the scope of the TPB’s power under TPO s. 4(1).  But Cons JA remarked (at 15F):-

    
        “The Attorney General had two or perhaps three further arguments based upon the last paragraph of section 4(1) [that is, the s. 4(1) proviso] or upon Crozet’s case HCMP 409/73, unreported. I venture to think that all were doubtful starters but express no concluded opinion....”
    

    67.  In Wing On, the Court of Appeal held that the Building Authority retained a discretion under BO s. 16 to approve building plans even where they contravened an OZP.  In the course of a concurring judgment, Godfrey JA approved (at 438D ff) the following passage from the Building Appeal Tribunal’s determination:-

    
        “Leading Counsel for the Appellants contended that in exercising the discretion to approve building plans even if they contravene the TPB plans, the Building Authority and this Tribunal must do a balancing exercise on site specific considerations. We agree with this proposition and would incidentally observe that this approach underlines the difference between the functions of the Building Authority and this Tribunal on the one hand and the Town Planning Board on the other: whereas the Town Planning Board is concerned with planning considerations for a particular zone or area, the Building Authority and this Tribunal are of course concerned with a particular site or specific building development. It is therefore perhaps not surprising that in the objection hearing the Town Planning Board was not willing to revise the draft OZP for the sake of the Appellants’ building plans in respect of their specific site and were not therefore prepared to treat the Appellants’ Site as a special case.

        The Building Authority on the other hand is and can only be concerned with a specific site. Leading Counsel for the Appellants and Counsel for the Building Authority were agreed that relevant considerations for the exercise of this discretion were (a) whether the planning intention in the OZP is contravened and (b) whether there are special considerations which warrant approval. Leading Counsel for the Appellant also contended that the question as to whether or not there were special considerations relating to the Applicant or the application was a relevant consideration for the purpose of the exercise of the discretion. Counsel for the Building Authority contended otherwise but we are satisfied that in principle this factor is a relevant consideration for the exercise of the discretion.”
    

    68.  Mr Yu claims support for his argument because the 3 cases apparently distinguish between the TPB’s power to draw up plans for areas and the Building Authority’s power to accept or reject plans for a building within an area covered by a layout plan.  The TPB’s power must be “broad brush,” while the Building Authority’s power is building specific.  An attempt by the TPB (Mr Yu submits) to regulate by an OZP what can or cannot be done in a particular building would be an unlawful extension of the TPB’s jurisdiction and an encroachment upon the Building Authority’s competence.

    69.  To bolster his argument, Mr Yu referred me to Town Planning Bill 2000 cls. 8 and 9. Those would have conferred specific powers on the TPB to prepare OZPs providing (among other matters) for “the control of height, number of storeys, plot ratio, gross floor area, site coverage, number of flats, disposition and use of buildings, which may vary from building to buildings in the same land use zone”. 

    70.  The 2000 Bill (Mr Yu says) would have extended the TPB’s powers to the regulation of individual buildings within a zone or area.  But, the Bill never having been enacted, Mr Yu invites me to infer that the Government has tacitly accepted that for the time being the TPB’s powers are to be limited to the regulation of classes of buildings (as opposed to any specific building or development) within a zone or area.

    71.  Mr Yu stresses (citing Bokhary PJ in Wah Yick Enterprises Co Ltd. v. Building Authority (1999) 2 HKCFAR 170 (at 182G)) that, if there is ambiguity as to the ambit of a statutory power, the power should be construed narrowly.  The operative statute should not be interpreted to take away private rights of property without compensation.  A property owner is entitled to the benefit of any doubt over the extent of the power.

    72.  Mr Yu says that, in light of the perceived need to clarify the scope of the TPB’s power by the Town Planning Bill 2000, there must have been doubt about the scope of the TPB’s power under the present TPO to regulate what may or may not be done in a specific building or development within a zone.  If so, then applying Bokhary JA’s dictum in Wah Yick, Turbo Top should enjoy the benefit of that doubt.  The TPO should be construed in its favour.  To do otherwise, would be tantamount to depriving Turbo Top of property rights without compensation.

    73.  Mr Yu adds that, in any event, the proposed restriction (namely, the requirement that there be at least 800 spaces at the site) is unworkable.  Mr Yu asks rhetorically: If there is re-development of the site, how will the minimum parking spaces requirement work? If the sole existing building at the site has no public parking provision, would this mean that the next building will have to introduce all 800 spaces?  That (Mr Yu submits) cannot be right.

    74.  I am not persuaded by Mr Yu’s arguments.

    75.  First, I think (as Mr Mok submits) that the 1st, 2nd and 3rd decisions fall squarely within the functions defined in the long title to the TPO and s. 3(1).  For the “convenience and general welfare” of the community, the TPB designated the site as C(1) and imposed a restriction on the number of public parking spaces there.

    76.  The C(1) zoning recognised an existing reality at the site (namely, that it had ceased to be 2 separate lots zoned G/IC and C), while the restriction safeguarded future availability of public car parking at the site. 

    77.  It would not be conducive to the public convenience to continue treating the site as something (2 separate lots) which it long had ceased to be. On the other hand, by imposing the restriction the TPB was preserving a public asset (the 800 car parking spaces) for use by the community in th