Sim Cheng Ho and Another v Lee Eng Soon
[1997] SGHC 254
 
 
Case Number
 
:
 
Cr Rev 14/1997
 
 
 
Decision Date
 
:
 
13 October 1997
 
 
 
Tribunal/Court
 
:
 
High Court
 
 
 
Coram
 
:
 
 
Yong Pung How CJ
 
 
 
 
Counsel Name(s)
 
:
 
 Palaniappan Sundararaj (Derrick, Ravi & Partners) for the petitioners; Philip Fong (Harry Elias & Partners) for the respondent 
 
 
 
Parties
 
:
 
 Sim Cheng Ho; Another — Lee Eng Soon 
 
 
 
Criminal Procedure and Sentencing
  – 
Revision of proceedings
  – 
Disposal inquiry
  – 
Inconsistent and conflicting evidence adduced at inquiry
  – 
Whether magistrate's decision resulted in clear failure of justice
  – 
Courses of action open to petitioners
  – 
Relevant provisions applicable
  – 
ss 386 & 392 Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68)
 
 
 
 
Judgment:
 
 
 
 
YONG PUNG HOW CJ
 This case concerned a disposal inquiry in respect of three vehicles seized in the course of police investigations. During the inquiry, both the petitioners and the respondent claimed entitlement to possession of the vehicles. The district judge ordered that the vehicles be delivered to the respondent. The petitioners filed a petition for the revision of the order made below. I dismissed the petition and now give my reasons.
 2.
 A preliminary point
There seemed no agreement in the court below between the parties involved on the question whether the inquiry was held pursuant to s 386 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68) (the CPC) or s 392 of the CPC. In their submissions, the petitioners assumed s 386 of the CPC to be the applicable section. The respondent relied upon s 386 of the CPC on the first page of his written submissions but, later, in the same set of submissions, cited s 392 of the CPC as the applicable section. From the notes of evidence, the investigating officer appears to have thought the relevant section to be s `382` of the CPC. The district judge did not comment on which section he applied nor whether he acted in his capacity as a magistrate, as required by s 392 of the CPC, or as a district judge. During the hearing of the petition, counsel for the respondent cited s 392 of the CPC as the relevant section while counsel for the petitioner did not mention which section of the CPC the case involved.
 3.The relevant section is s 392 of the CPC. This is because no prosecution was commenced after the police investigations. Accordingly, there has been no `inquiry or trial in any criminal court` within the meaning of s 386 of the CPC. Previously, in 
Magnum Finance Bhd v PP
 
 
[1996] 2 SLR 523
 , I stated, for the same reason, that this is the disposal provision to apply in cases where there has been no prosecution. No prejudice, however, has been occasioned by the confusion in the court below, as the inquiry only concerned the disposal of property between rival claimants and this discretion is similarly exercised under both sections. No power peculiar to s 386 of the CPC was involved. I therefore proceeded to deal with the petition on the footing that the inquiry had been held pursuant to s 392 of the CPC.
 4.
 The law in respect of disposal inquiries held pursuant to s 392(1) of the CPC
Section 392(1) of the CPC is as follows: 
The seizure by any police officer of property taken under section 29 or alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence shall be forthwith reported to a Magistrate`s Court which shall make such order as it thinks fit respecting the delivery of the property to the person entitled to possession of it or, if that person cannot be ascertained, respecting the custody and production of the property.
 5.
 Thai Chong Pawnshop Pte Ltd v Vankrisappan 
 Magnum Finance Bhd v PP f 
Somewhat surprisingly, there is scant local precedent on the exercise of a magistrate`s discretion pursuant to s 392 of the CPC. 
 Magnum Finance Bhd v PP 
, which I mentioned earlier, is a case which really concerned s 386 and dealt only with the question of when s 392 of the CPC is to apply. Nevertheless, some of the precedents on s 386(1) of the CPC, insofar as they deal purely with the distribution of property between rival claimants, would seem applicable to disposal inquiries held pursuant to s 392(1) of the CPC. Using this approach, the following principles appear to be relevant to a disposal inquiry conducted under s 392 of the CPC: (i). A disposal inquiry is intended to be an inexpensive and expeditious manner of distributing items produced in the course of investigations or at trial: 
Thai Chong Pawnshop Pte Ltd v Vankrisappan
 
 
[1994] 2 SLR 414
 .
 (ii). Such an inquiry is not conclusive as to title. The rightful owner can and should assert his rights in a separate civil suit: .
 (iii). There is no right of appeal against an order made pursuant to a disposal inquiry: 
Sofjan & Anor v PP
 
 
[1970] 2 MLJ 272
 .
 (iv). Where there is a fundamental error occasioning a clear failure of justice, the court may exercise its revisionary jurisdiction: .
 6.From the preceding paragraph, it is clear that while the perimeters of a magistrate`s discretion and the High Court`s powers have been delineated with precision, no rules have been set out in respect of situations where entitlement to possession is disputed. In this connection, counsel for the petitioners advocated the approach found in the Indian case of 
Purshottam Das v State
 
[1952] Cr LJ 856
. In dealing with a provision of the Indian Criminal Procedure Code similar to the section under discussion, Desai J stated at p 860: 
A magistrate is not a civil court and has no power to decide disputes about title. There was nothing in s 523 to authorise a magistrate to decide which party is the rightful owner of the property. His enquiry is limited to finding which person is entitled to possession. 
 Once he ascertains the person from whose possession the property is seized, he must hold him to be entitled to its possession unless his possession was unlawful
. [Emphasis added.]
 7.The first part of the extract is unremarkable and I have no quarrel with it. It is clear from the local precedents and indeed, s 392 itself, that the magistrate may not make binding decisions about title to property. Counsel for the petitioners, however, relied on the portion highlighted in italics to set out a simple three-point test: first, the magistrate should ascertain the possessor at the time of seizure; secondly, he should ascertain if such possession was unlawful; and thirdly, in the absence of unlawful possession, the property should be returned as a matter of course to the person in whose possession it was immediately prior to seizure by the police.
 8.I cannot agree that a magistrate must be constrained to such a simplistic approach. Suppose, for example, that X, who holds title, loans his property to Y for a day, who would then be in possession as a lawful licensee. At the end of the day, the property is seized from Y during police investigations, through no fault of X or Y. Although Y would be the party in possession at the time of seizure, Y could not possibly dispute that it is X who is entitled to possession. Although Desai J`s observation that the magistrate is unable to decide questions of title is a correct one, the mere inability to
 decide 
 questions as to title does not and cannot lead to an inability to 
 have regard 
to the party who holds title. Title and possession are related concepts. In many cases, the right to possession arises from the fact of having title. In other cases, although a party holds title, he may not, for various reasons, be the party entitled to possession: for instance, if he has leased his property to another for a period which has not expired.
 9.In my view, a magistrate having charge of a disposal inquiry cannot abdicate his responsibilities by applying the three-step 
 Purshottam Das 
 test. He must look to the facts of each case to ascertain the party who is entitled to possession. In some cases, entitlement to possession will be plain from the facts presented. In other cases, he may not be so fortunate. But even where such entitlement is not clear from the evidence, the magistrate still ought to deliver possession to the party to whom, after a consideration of the evidence, appears to him to be entitled to possession. In such cases, the magistrate is severely handicapped by the lack of pre-inquiry disclosure of documents and evidence. As a result, his judgment must, in a sense, be exercised in a somewhat `rough and ready` fashion. This may be justified by the object of disposal inquiries, which is to achieve an expeditious method of distributing items no longer relevant to police investigations or court proceedings. It should be noted, in this context, as it was in 
 Thai Chong Pawnshop Pte Ltd v Vankrisappan 
, that the magistrate`s ruling has no effect on a civil court, which is the correct forum in which to test complex issues of fact and law. In such cases, any party aggrieved ought to commence civil proceedings. A petition for revision is not the appropriate route. As I said in 
 Magnum Finance Bhd v PP 
, the High Court`s power of revision is only exercised where there has been a fundamental error occasioning a clear failure of justice. It was with these principles in mind that I considered the petition for revision.
 10.
 The disposal inquiry in the court below
This disposal inquiry concerned a car with registration number SBU 2462 (the Nissan); a pick-up truck with registration number GJ 4328 (the pick-up); and a van with registration number YF 2867Z (the van). The Nissan was owned by one Sim Cheng Khim (Sim) (the deceased) whilst the pick-up and the van were owned by Golden Horse Trading Pte Ltd (Golden Horse), a dormant company owned by Sim. The Nissan was transferred to Sim`s husband, one Lee Eng Soon (the respondent) and the other two vehicles were transferred to his company, Jean Tex Trading Pte Ltd (Jean Tex) between August and December 1994. On 2 March 1995, Sim lodged a police report alleging that her signature had been forged on the instruments of transfer. In the course of the ensuing police investigation, the vehicles were seized from the possession of the respondent. Meanwhile, on 8 August 1995, Sim died. In her will, she bequeathed all her property `whatsoever and wheresoever situate` to her trustees to hold on trust for her mother. The two petitioners are the executors of her estate.
 11.After 18 months, upon the completion of their investigation, the police decided not to prosecute the respondent. A disposal inquiry was convened to distribute the three vehicles and both the petitioners and the respondent claimed entitlement to the vehicles.
 12.During the disposal inquiry, the investigating officer, S/S/Sgt Robert Kau, produced the police report in which Sim contended that the respondent had forged her signature on the transfer form for all three vehicles. He testified that he had sent the transfer forms for the pick-up and the van to the Department of Scientific Services (DSS) for signature analysis. On cross-examination by counsel for the respondent, he revealed that the form for the Nissan had not been sent because Sim had informed him that that was `her transfer form`.
 13.Counsel for the petitioners sought to prove the estate`s claim by adducing three categories of evidence: first, evidence that Sim`s signatures had been forged without her knowledge; secondly, her statements to the same effect, particularly those made in a will dated 7 February 1995; and thirdly, evidence that her relationship with her husband was poor prior to her death.
 14.In order to show that Sim had no prior knowledge of the transfer, an officer from the company from which the vehicles had been hire-purchased, Jeffrey Lim, was called. He testified that Sim telephoned Wayfoong Mortgage & Finance (S) Pte Ltd in January 1995 to enquire about the outstanding account for the Nissan. When informed that the account had been settled by a cash payment and the vehicles had been released to the respondent, she expressed surprise and said `it can`t be settled`.
 15.To prove that the signatures were forged, the DSS officer was called. He testified both in respect of the report he gave the police, as well as a later report requested by the executors. In the first report made for the purposes of the police investigation, he compared the signatures on the transfer forms for the van and pick-up with Sim`s specimen signatures. In the second report for the executors, he compared the release letter given to Wayfoong Mortgage by the respondent with Sim`s specimen signatures. He testified that the maker of the specimen signatures was not the same person as the maker of the signatures on the release letter and transfer forms. On cross-examination, he stated that illness could affect a person`s signature, but was of the view that none of the signatures exhibited was made by a person with terminal illness because the muscle control was still sound. He was of the opinion that the transfer form and release letter signatures were stiff and heavy, which could be the result of someone trying to imitate another`s handwriting. He was unable to conclude, however, that the respondent was responsible for the forgery. Owing to the fact that the specimen signature provided by the respondent was in Chinese, there was no basis for comparing the Chinese signature with the forged signatures.
 16.The second main area of the executors` evidence centred on the will dated 7 February 1995. By her will, Sim bequeathed all her property to her mother. At para 5, she explained her omission to provide for her husband in the following terms: 
I declare that my reason for making no provision in this my will for my husband Lee Eng Soon @ Lee Son is that there is no longer any husband-wife relationship between us since he fraudulently forged my signature and transferred my car to himself and also transferred my property Blk 7 #11-11 Melville Park Singapore to his mother without my prior approval.
 The solicitors who were responsible for drafting the will were called as witnesses. Jupiter Kong, former solicitor for Sim while he was at Lee & Lee, stated that the word `car` in para 5 ought to have been in the plural, because he was initially instructed in respect of the unlawful transfer of ownership of three cars and an apartment. On the other hand, Stacey Ong, who was responsible for drafting the will, testified that she had read the will to Sim on the telephone and Sim had confirmed that the will reflected her intentions.
 17.Both petitioners and a social worker named Cathy Lim were called to testify in respect of Sim`s complaints against the respondent. However, most of the questions asked were disallowed on the ground of hearsay and nothing of substance was adduced from these witnesses.
 18.The respondent, for his part, relied on the following four facts: that the police decided not to charge him with any offence; that he was and is the holder of the legal title; that he was in possession immediately prior to the seizure of the vehicles; and that all three vehicles were paid for by Jean Tex Trading Pte Ltd (Jean Tex), a company he now owns.
 19.The respondent`s evidence was that he married Sim in 1992. From sometime in 1990 until July 1994, he was an undischarged bankrupt. Both the pick-up and the van, he said, were purchased prior to his marriage. The pick-up was held in the name of Jean Tex, which was then owned by one Lee Jee Kok, and the van was owned by his mother. The pick-up was transferred, without fee, to Sim`s dormant company, Golden Horse, sometime in 1992 when Jean Tex was in financial trouble. The van was transferred to Golden Horse in 1992 also, again without fee, because his mother was `getting old`. The Nissan was purchased in Sim`s name in 1992, but he contended that Jean Tex paid for its purchase. Sim did not possess a driving licence. At all times, the three vehicles were used for the purposes and in the possession of Jean Tex. He became the proprietor of Jean Tex on 10 October 1994, after the annulment of his bankruptcy. He testified that Sim agreed to transfer the vehicles to him in late 1994, and furnished him with her identity card for this purpose. She signed the transfer forms and release letter in hospital, while he was out buying her lunch.
 20.At the end of the inquiry, the magistrate ordered that the vehicles be delivered to the respondent.
 21.
 The petition for revision
Counsel for the petitioners raised three main grounds for revision: first, that the magistrate had given insufficient attention to the DSS reports that Sim`s signatures had been forged; secondly, that insufficient emphasis had been placed on Sim`s statements in her will and to witnesses that the respondent had caused the unlawful transfer of the vehicles to himself; and lastly, as a related submission to the second ground, that the magistrate had erred in refusing to admit statements made by Sim to others about her relationship with the respondent and the respondent`s role in the transfer of her vehicles.
 22.In my view, the evidence in respect of the forged signatures was the most significant issue raised in the petition. Both in the court below and before me, counsel for the respondent made much of the fact that no prosecution has been brought against the respondent. This, in my opinion, was irrelevant. If the transfer forms had been forged, regardless of who had forged them or how they had been forged, it would appear that the title to the vehicles would have remained with Sim and, on her death, passed to her estate. Nevertheless, as a result of the aborted investigations, there has been no finding of fact in any court of competent jurisdiction that the transfer forms were indeed forged. For this reason, I looked very carefully at the evidence adduced to prove the forgeries. Unfortunately, I found the evidence unsatisfactory in several respects. On this point, the petitioners` case hinged on the DSS reports. The initial DSS report, however, only dealt with the transfer forms for the pick-up and the van. The Nissan form was excluded because, on S/S/Sgt Kau`s evidence, Sim had informed him that it was `her transfer form`. The omission of evidence on the Nissan transfer form was a serious lacuna in the petitioners` case. In an attempt to remedy the loophole, counsel for the petitioners then requested that the third form be sent as well. Owing to objections made by counsel for the respondent on the grounds that the magistrate had no power to order the further analysis, the magistrate refused the application. Nevertheless, on 23 April 1997, after the close of the respondent`s case, when the magistrate adjourned the hearing to 6 June 1997 for written submissions, he gave the petitioners leave to subpoena the DSS officer, if they thought fit. The DSS officer was called as a witness on 7 June 1997. It was at this hearing that he tendered his second report, dated 16 May 1997. In the report, he compared the signature on the Wayfoong Mortgage release form, which the respondent had tendered to obtain possession of the Nissan, with Sim`s specimen signature and concluded that the makers of both signatures were different. Again, no evidence as to the signature on the Nissan transfer form was led.
 23.In addition, there appeared to be some inconsistency in Sim`s various comments on the issue of the documents being forged. Although she reported to the police, the executors and Jupiter Kong that all three vehicles had been transferred without her authority, she informed S/S/Sgt Robert Kau that the transfer form for the Nissan was `her transfer form`. Moreover, para 5 of her will, drafted by Stacey Ong upon her specific instructions, referred only to `car` in the singular.
 24.This case was further complicated by both sides` treatment of the respondent`s evidence, through the production of cheque stubs and receipts, that Jean Tex had funded the initial purchase of the vehicles. Counsel for the respondent laid emphasis on this fact, but as I pointed out at the hearing, the log-book of a vehicle is its index of title: the funding of the purchases, without more, could not be a reason to deliver possession of the vehicles to the respondent. The respondent 
 could 
 have argued, based on such funding, that a resulting trust existed in his favour and that Sim, even prior to the transfers of title, was only a `bare trustee` with none of the benefits of ownership; that the respondent as the beneficial owner would have been entitled, at any point, to have asked for possession, and indeed, the transfer of the bare legal title to himself: see 
Saunders v Vautier
 
[1841] Cr & Ph 240
. This he did not do. His omission was complicated by the fact that this type of resulting trust is merely a presumption of intention which may be contradicted by evidence that the parties intended the contrary. Of relevance in the present case was the fact that Sim was the respondent`s wife and, as such, a `presumption of advancement` could be applicable to show that the husband intended the cars to be gifts: see 
Tinker v Tinker
 
[1970] 1 All ER 540
. This point was not taken by counsel for the petitioners either. In consequence, no evidence was led by either side as to the intent of the parties. For the petitioners, their omission may have arisen because Sim had informed them that she had paid for the cars and that her bag of documents was missing. Prior to the hearing, too, they were unaware of the respondent`s cheque stubs and receipts. As for counsel for the respondent, his omission may have arisen, in part, from his misplaced reliance on 
 Purshottam Das v State 
.
 25.From the preceding paragraphs, it would appear that there was a tremendous conflict of evidence which remained unresolved after the proceedings in the court below. No doubt some of the confusion may have been occasioned by the informal nature of a disposal inquiry and the ancillary lack of procedure for the proper discovery or inspection of documents found in civil and criminal proceedings. Be that as it may, I was not persuaded to exercise my revisionary jurisdiction, as it cannot, in the circumstances, be said that the magistrate`s decision resulted in a clear failure of justice. The respondent was the holder of the legal title and was in possession prior to the seizure. If the police had not seized the vehicles, the petitioners would have had the onus of commencing a claim in conversion and of proving the forgery. In order to prove that claim, proper discovery of documents would be necessary, the DSS reports would be perused in advance by the respondent, who would then be entitled to call his own expert to contest the allegations made. The respondent`s evidence as to payment would also be properly tested and any arguments in respect of a resulting trust or gift would be canvassed properly before the court. The magistrate`s order was merely a return to status quo and the petitioners are not constrained by this order in subsequent civil proceedings. Conversely, if the magistrate had ordered the delivery of the vehicles to the respondent, his order would have been limited to possession only. If it could be shown that notwithstanding the respondent`s legal title, he was plainly not entitled to possession, then mere possession would have sufficed for the petitioners` purposes. It was obvious from the evidence, however, that this was not the situation at hand.
 26.In my judgment, this case highlighted the inadequacy of a disposal inquiry as a forum to adjudicate complex issues of civil law. In such inquiries, there are no proper procedures for all pertinent issues to be set out and for evidence to be discovered and contested in an orderly fashion. This arises, no doubt, from their purpose, which is merely to distribute items no longer relevant to pending police investigations or criminal proceedings. Where it is plain from the facts and law which party ought to obtain possession, a magistrate`s failure to exercise his discretion correctly could be taken to be a fundamental error. Where entitlement to possession is complex, on the other hand, the magistrate must, by force of circumstances, do justice between the parties in a somewhat `rough and ready` manner. In such cases, canvassing the same issues again on a petition for revision is inappropriate.
 27.In the present case, upon receipt of information that the police were not proceeding with charges against the respondent, the petitioners ought to have commenced civil proceedings against the respondent for conversion immediately. If those proceedings had finished prior to the disposal inquiry and the petitioners had been adjudged the rightful owners, then it would have been a fundamental error for the magistrate to have ignored that finding. Even if those proceedings had not been completed prior to the disposal inquiry, several avenues would still have been open to the petitioners to allow them to protect their interest. First, they could have persuaded the magistrate to release the vehicles to the respondents on a bond to return them if the civil court should find favourably for the petitioners. This is an approach suggested by the Malaysian courts where an appeal is pending: 
PP v Peh Choo Key
 [1970] MLJ 136 . Alternatively, they could have persuaded the magistrate to retain the vehicles or their proceeds in the custody of the court, subject to any order of the civil court. This is the approach advocated by several Indian authorities: 
 Ramphal 
 40 CWN 862, 
 Ram Khalawan 
 28 CWN 1094, 
 Visa Samta 
 16 Cr LJ 111. I should mention that, in two of these cases, the order appears to have been made regardless of whether a civil suit was actually pending. This approach is not recommended, for, if no civil suit is commenced, the order would be of an uncertain duration. In any event, these possibilities were moot in the present case, because no civil proceedings were in fact afoot.