Roslan bin Abdul Rahman v Public Prosecutor
[1999] SGCA 10
 
 
Case Number
 
:
 
Cr App 20/1998
 
 
 
Decision Date
 
:
 
01 February 1999
 
 
 
Tribunal/Court
 
:
 
Court of Appeal
 
 
 
Coram
 
:
 
 
Karthigesu JA
; 
L P Thean JA
; 
Yong Pung How CJ
 
 
 
 
Counsel Name(s)
 
:
 
 Appellant in person Anandan Bala; (Deputy Public Prosecutor) for the respondent 
 
 
 
Parties
 
:
 
 Roslan bin Abdul Rahman — Public Prosecutor 
 
 
 
Criminal Procedure and Sentencing
  – 
Sentencing
  – 
Robbery causing death
  – 
ss 394 & 397 Penal Code (Cap 224)
 
 
Criminal Procedure and Sentencing
  – 
Previous acquittals or convictions
  – 
Robbery causing death
  – 
Whether offender's previous drug related antecedents should be taken into account in sentencing
 
 
 
 
Judgment:
 
 
 
 
KARTHIGESU JA
 (delivering the grounds of judgment of the court): The appellant was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of 18 years and caning with 24 strokes for the offence of robbery punishable under s 394 read with s 397 of the Penal Code (Cap 224) by Choo Han Teck JC. He appealed against the sentence. We reduced the term of imprisonment to 12 years and confirmed the imposition of the punishment of caning with 24 strokes. We now give our reasons.
 2.
 The facts 
 
The appellant, Roslan bin Abdul Rahman, had an accomplice, Ali bin Abdullah. The deceased victim was one Chia Siew Hiew, a 74 year old woman. Prior to her demise, she resided alone in Blk 45 Bedok South Road [num ]10-791.
 3.Sometime in June 1997, the appellant was in desperate need of cash. The accomplice suggested to the appellant that he should steal from the deceased. He informed the appellant that the deceased would water her plants outside her flat at a particular time every morning and that the appellant could sneak into her flat at that time. The appellant then observed the behaviour of the deceased and found that there was indeed such a pattern.
 4.On 23 June 1997, the appellant, acting on the accomplice`s suggestion, sneaked into the deceased`s flat whilst she was watering her plants and hid in her bedroom. When the deceased returned to her bedroom, she spotted the appellant and started screaming. She tried to escape but the appellant grabbed her. The appellant then used his hands to cover her mouth and dragged her back into the room.
 5.When the appellant released her, she attempted to escape from the room again. A struggle ensued and in the course of the struggle, the deceased fell and hit her face against the edge of the bed and the floor. She suffered bruises on her cheeks and forehead, as well as some fractures around the area of her right eye and her nose. She lost consciousness but was (according to the appellant) still alive.
 6.The appellant took a small towel and stuffed it into her mouth to stop her from screaming when she regained consciousness. He ransacked the room and stole about $4,000 in cash, two gold rings and a gold bracelet. The appellant then wiped everything he had touched with one of his socks before leaving the flat.
 7.On 24 June 1998, the adopted son of the deceased discovered her and called the police. The deceased was subsequently pronounced dead. On 25 June 1998, a post-mortem revealed the cause of death was asphyxia due to gagging.
 8.On 6 July 1998, the appellant was charged as follows: 
That you, Roslan bin Abdul Rahman, on 23 June 1997, at or about 6am, at Block 45, Bedok South Road [num ]10-791, Singapore, did commit robbery of the following properties:
 
(i) cash of $4,000, 
(ii) two gold rings valued at $50 each, and 
(iii) one gold bracelet valued at $150,
 
with a total value of $4,250, in possession of one Chia Siew Hiew, and whilst committing the said robbery, did cause grievous hurt to the said Chia Siew Hiew, to wit, by causing her to suffer fractures around the area of her right eye and on her nose, and you have thereby committed an offence punishable under s 394 read with s 397 of the Penal Code (Cap 224).
 The appellant pleaded guilty to the above charge.
 9.
 The decision below 
 
The appellant was not represented by counsel at the trial below. The appellant admitted the offence and the statement of facts which was read out. He pleaded for leniency. The deputy public prosecutor then addressed the court and pressed for a deterrent sentence. In his address the deputy public prosecutor drew the court`s attention to the appellant`s antecedents, all of which related to the consumption of drugs and detentions at drug rehabilitation centres. He drew attention to the particular facts of this case where the appellant had preyed on a very old woman who was quite helpless in defending herself and referred to police statistics which showed that property offences involving victims of 60 years and above were on the increase. Finally, the deputy public prosecutor submitted that there was a correlation between an accused person`s drug background and the crime committed by them. He referred to certain statistics in support and after referring in detail to the appellant`s `long history of drug abuse` and detentions at drug rehabilitation centres which went as far back as 1977, concluded his address to the court on sentence with these words: 
The accused has therefore maintained his drug activities throughout the last 20 years and because of the correlation between such a background and the commission of property offences ..., offenders like him must be deterred effectively by meting out a harsh sentence.
 The appellant was then sentenced to imprisonment for the term of 18 years and caning with 24 strokes in accordance with s 394 read with s 397 of the Penal Code (Cap 224).
 10.
 The appeal 
 
On appeal, the appellant, who appeared in person, contended that the trial judge erred in taking into consideration his drug-related antecedents and that the sentence pronounced was manifestly excessive.
 11.The applicable laws are s 394 and s 397 of the Penal Code (Cap 224). For easy reference, we have set out the provisions below.Section 394 of the Penal Code reads: 
Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery.
 
394 If any person, in committing or in attempting to commit robbery, voluntarily causes hurt, such person, and any other person, jointly concerned in committing or attempting to commit such robbery, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than 5 years and not more than 20 years and shall also be punished with caning with not less than 12 stokes.
 Section 397 of the Penal Code reads: 
Robbery when armed or with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt.
 
397 If at the time of committing or attempting to commit robbery, the offender is armed with or uses any deadly weapon, or causes grievous hurt to any person, or attempts to cause death or grievous hurt to any person, such offender shall be punished with caning with not less than 12 strokes, in addition to any other punishment to which he may be liable under any other section of this Code.
 12.The offence of committing armed robbery with hurt, with which the appellant was charged, carried the punishment of a mandatory minimum caning of 24 strokes under s 394 read with s 397 of the Penal Code. The combined effect of these two provisions effectively removed the court`s discretion to decrease the number of strokes of the cane. It followed that this part of the appeal naturally failed. In passing it will be remembered that under s 230 of the Criminal Procedure Code the maximum number of strokes of the cane permitted is 24. Hence in this case the minimum number of strokes was also the maximum.
 13.The next issue was whether we should reduce the term of imprisonment. In the present case the learned trial judge was right to regard the offence of armed robbery with hurt as a very serious offence meriting a deterrent sentence due to the prevalence of this type of offence.
 14.The learned trial judge gave no reasons in support of the sentence he imposed. The appellant`s final plea was that this was his first criminal offence as the others were drug-related offences. This plea was ignored. It seemed to us that the learned trial judge was influenced by the prosecution`s submission and took into account the appellant`s drug-related antecedents. The learned trial judge had proceeded on wrong principles. The appellant`s drug-related antecedents should have no bearing on the present trial as it was completely unrelated to the offence the appellant was charged with. The appellant had no antecedents of offences related to the type of offence he was charged with. The fact that the appellant was a drug addict did not necessarily imply that he was more prone to commit the offence of armed robbery with hurt.
 15.Bearing this in mind, we considered the sentence of 18 years` imprisonment to be inappropriate and unduly excessive. We therefore quashed that sentence and substituted for it a sentence of 12 years` imprisonment. Accordingly, the sentence was reduced to 12 years` imprisonment and caning with 24 strokes.